TITLE:
How to Build a Lead Generation Chatbot: A Step-by-Step Guide

SOURCE URL:
https://landbot.io/blog/lead-generation-chatbot-tutorial

CONTENT:
 ## How to Build a Lead Generation Chatbot: A Step-by-Step Guide - Better Experience and Increased Lead Engagement - With Landbot’s No-Code Builder Please note that 'Variables' are now called 'Fields' in Landbot's platform.. Please note that 'Variables' are now called 'Fields' in Landbot's platform.. There’s always a new tactic, tool, or funnel promising better results. Should you use a conversational landing page? Double down on WhatsApp? Or build something entirely new?. There’s no one-size-fits-all answer, but one thing is clear: conversational marketing and chatbots consistently outperform static forms. That’s why this guide walks you through what a lead generation chatbot is, why it works, and exactly how to build one in Landbot, whether you prefer a rule-based chatbot or an AI Agent.. ## Advantages of Using a Chatbot for Lead Generation Here’s a quick look at the three biggest advantages you’re about to learn more about:. Higher conversion rates: Chatbots replace static forms with interactive, real-time conversations.Lower cost per lead: Automation reduces acquisition costs across channels like web and WhatsApp.Better user experience and engagement: Visitors stay longer, answer more questions, and provide richer lead data.. - Higher conversion rates: Chatbots replace static forms with interactive, real-time conversations. - Lower cost per lead: Automation reduces acquisition costs across channels like web and WhatsApp.Better user experience and engagement: Visitors stay longer, answer more questions, and provide richer lead data. A lead generation chatbot is a bot designed to identify potential customers, collect their contact information, and spark interest in your products or services. Compared to other lead gen methods, lead gen bots offer clear and measurable advantages.. The most important types of conversion — especially for B2B websites — are lead form submissions. The information they collect in these forms is what turns casual visitors into prospects, and can ultimately translate into valuable partnerships and sales.. Unfortunately, generating leads or any kind of conversion can be challenging. That’s not great news, especially for businesses looking to use their websites as a key part of their marketing campaigns and sales strategies. But just because the average is low doesn’t mean that your site’s conversion rates have to be as well. Replacing standard forms with a lead generation website chatbot can be the perfect solution.. Conversational Design, an agency that helps companies grow with conversational marketing, was able to increase conversion rates of chatbot leads to over 40% with Landbot compared to an average landing page conversion rate of 2.35%.. They were also able to reduce their own cost per lead by 200% and generate close to €1.5M in revenue for their customers.. Speaking of lowering CPL, Conversational Design isn’t the only Landbot customer doing so with a lead generation bot.. Animal Equality, an international organization working with society, governments, and companies to end cruelty to farmed animals, reduced their CPL, too, with a WhatsApp chatbot for lead generation.. Working with Conversational Design as their marketing agency, Animal Equality resorted to a WhatsApp bot and made it its primary conversational channel that was integrated with other channels for lead capturing, nurturing, and engagement.. This lead generation bot collects lead information and opts in the users in all the 7 channels for further content outreach.. Among other great results such as reducing drop-offs and increasing donor conversions, Animal Equality saw a blended cost per lead for all the leads acquired through the chatbot of 2.33€, where the lead is accessible on the majority of the seven channels. This is significantly lower when compared to the CPL for building a list for only the email channel, which is 0.30€.. ## 3. Better Experience and Increased Lead Engagement One of the most challenging parts of turning site visitors into leads is keeping them engaged with your brand long enough to show them why you’re the right choice for their needs.. There are better ways to accomplish this than just filling your lead generation website or landing page with long walls of text. However, most people find information-based pages on a brand’s website a little overwhelming — and often a bit off-putting.. Instead of expecting visitors to read paragraph upon paragraph of text, skimming to find the details that are relevant to them, chatbots deliver the relevant data to the prospects through a simple conversational interchange.. Germany’s top online car retailer, MeinAuto, noticed that one of their customer segments, visitors needing more guidance, had high bounce rates. Their old UX-only journey left too many unanswered questions.. The bot collected lead information automatically.Data was handed off instantly to Sales for follow-ups.MeinAuto achieved a 10% increase in generated leads from visitors who interacted with the chatbot.. - The bot collected lead information automatically. - Data was handed off instantly to Sales for follow-ups. - MeinAuto achieved a 10% increase in generated leads from visitors who interacted with the chatbot. ## Step-by-step Guide to Building a Lead Generation Chatbot By now you’re probably thinking, “Wow, these are amazing results! How do I get started?”. Worry not! In this section, we’ll show you how to easily build a chatbot for lead generation. You can follow along without having a Landbot account, but it’s best if you create one to be able to try out the builder yourself.. Once you sign in to the app, click the “Build a chatbot” button.. You’ll see that there are several options to choose from to get started. In this tutorial, we’ll walk you through the two options — using the no-code builder and the AI assistant.. ## With Landbot’s No-Code Builder This way, you’ll get to know Landbot’s product better and get a feel of all the possibilities is has to offer.. In the video below, we show you how to build a lead generation chatbot and you will have the step by step explained in detailed in this article.. Go to your Landbot dashboard and click “Build a Chatbot.” Select the channel on which you want to deploy your bot. You could get started with a pre-built lead generation template:. However, to show off some of our product’s features, we will pick the “Start from scratch” option.. The first thing you need to do is customize a welcome message that greets your leads and gets the conversation going. To do so, drag an arrow from the starting point block and pick the “Buttons” option:. By clicking on the block, you can modify the message as you please, add more text bubbles, and play around with visual elements such as images, GIFs, and videos. Here, I’ve typed up a simple greeting with a GIF and provided one possible answer for the lead to reply to the bot.. When it comes to lead generation, once the greeting is out of the way, the first step should always be asking for the lead’s name. This will allow you to personalize the conversation from the very beginning.. To set up the next exchange after the welcome block, drag a green arrow from the last button answer and select the type of block you want to set up next. The predefined question text is “What’s your name?”, but you can modify it as necessary, for example, if you want to convey a more formal or informal tone or reflect other traits of your brand’s personality.. As you can see, the user answer is already set to save under the @name variable. Thanks to this variable, you are not only able to collect the data but also call your visitors by their name throughout the conversation.. After you got the lead’s name, proceed to ask for their email address and phone number by using the designated blocks.. First, drag an arrow from the last block, hover over the “Questions” section again, and select “Ask for an email.”. As in the case of the name block, there’s a preset question and the variable is already configured. Also, the email block automatically checks that the user's answer has the correct email format and includes “@” sign and “.com” or variations.. Next, drag an arrow from the “Email” block, go to “Questions” and pick “Ask for a phone.” Here, you can edit the question to include a short message acknowledging you got the lead’s email address. The answers will be saved under the @phone variable, and you can select the option to show the country code selector in your bot.. The best part about a lead generation bot is that, unlike a form, it can ask a lot of questions without annoying your prospects.. One of the easiest and fastest ways to obtain qualifying information is by using the “Buttons” block, which, instead of asking the lead to type in their answer, provides options in the form of buttons.. This is a great way to understand your leads’ needs, communicate your service offering and how it can help them, and speed up the information submission process.. You can add as many question “Buttons” blocks as you need to make sure you gather all the relevant information from your leads.. Additionally, you can

[Content truncated for brevity]